# Changelog

This is an overview of new features and bug fixes made to the Euler module. 
Versions are listed in reverse chronological order, likewise for changes within 
each section for the type of change (based on date/time of commit or merge).

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/) 
and we adhere to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

## [0.0.4] - 2025-11-01

### Changed

- Support for Python 3.13+ added.

### Removed

- Support for Python 3.9 dropped.

## [0.0.3] - 2024-11-01

### Changed

- Package is now a `pyproject.toml` project instead of using `setup.py`.

### Removed

- Support for Python 3.8 dropped.

## [0.0.2] - 2023-12-06

### Added

- Mark as typed package.

### Removed

- Support for Python 2.7 and 3.7 dropped.

### Fixed

- Properly determine when to use miller test for totient function and raise 
  error if primes are exhausted.
- Correct formula set sometimes trying to adding certain values during 
  expansion when it is not needed.
- Correct formula set off by one errors from extending get items and updates.
- Properly generate some palindrome when using low limits.

## [0.0.1] - 2023-12-05

### Added

- Initial release of package.
- Modular multiplicative inverse.
- Tree-based coprime set generation.
- Add length to formula set.
- Add range to prime set.
- Prime set is now always reversible.
- Added method to retrieve proper divisors from prime factorization.
- Include Miller test for primality.
- Allow Miller test for prime set extension.
- Miller-aware totient function with formula speedups.
- Totient function based on prime set.
- Functions for converting Roman numerals.
- Convergents of continued fractions.
- Support slices in formula set.
- Prime set length and index lookup.
- Prime factorization.
- Added tracking of sequences of numbers generated by a formula.
- Text file reading.
- Digit palindrome generation and check.
- Added method to find proper divisors.
- Triangle file reading and maximum path sum.

### Fixed

- Improve palindrome functions: Correct when limit is an odd-power of ten 
  (i.e., 1000 = 1e3).
- Improve prime set extension.
- Correct prime factorization algorithm: E.g., for n=144, the remaining factor 
  was missed as it was both the divisor and the remaining value.
- Ensure sorted order in the prime set and formula set.

### Removed

- Initially, a Sieve module was added to find prime numbers, but it was 
  replaced with the prime set module.

[Unreleased]: https://github.com/lhelwerd/euler/compare/v0.0.4...HEAD
[0.0.3]: https://github.com/lhelwerd/euler/releases/tag/v0.0.4
[0.0.3]: https://github.com/lhelwerd/euler/releases/tag/v0.0.3
[0.0.2]: https://github.com/lhelwerd/euler/releases/tag/v0.0.2
[0.0.1]: https://github.com/lhelwerd/euler/releases/tag/v0.0.1
